Title: HDTV Coverage
Menu: SideC

This predicted coverage map shows generally where the WLT translator
signal will be usable.

![Coverage Map]({static}/images/coverage_map.jpg)

Note that this is "predicted" coverage, not "measured" It is
calculated mathematically using data about the antenna design, antenna
height, transmitter output power, and topographic features from 2 to
10 miles away from the transmitter location.

Because the calculations don't take into account terrestrial
obstructions beyond 10 miles from the transmitter, they don't
recognize distant obstacles, such as, for example, Cape Perpetua being
a small impediment to our signals getting into Yachats. Even nearby
locations can be much different from the predicted coverage. The
coverage map clearly indicates that our transmitters should reach
Mapleton, 13 miles inland from Florence, but because of shielding
terrain, there is no signal there. Two of the Eugene TV stations
operate separate translator facilities to provide service to that
community.

On the other hand, the signal strength out to sea is probably
understated. Without hills and trees, it's likely possible to receive
a great picture all the way to the horizon and a bit beyond.

Locations such as Siltcoos Lake, and other hilly environs will
experience hit-or-miss propagation, depending on which side of a hill
you might be on, and the elevation of your site.

It is possible to run complex computer simulations that take into
account more accurate terrain modeling, but it is very expensive, and
is usually only put to task in high-stakes radio frequency
installations. For now, all we have access to is the FCC contour maps,
which is the only data which the Commission regards as valid.

The tools on [TV Fool](https://www.tvfool.com/) may be useful for
getting information specific to your exact location.
