Television](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV "High Definition Television for Florence")

HDTV Reception Issues
---------------------

This page is a compendium of observations and advice we have accumulated
over the last ten years of operating the HDTV translator system. Have a
look around and see if your question is answered in one of these
dialogues.

My television isn't getting anything. What am I doing wrong?

<div>

Possibly nothing. Remember that your HD television must be set to
"scan" for area transmitters. Once it learns what's out there, you
might be fine. In all instances, some kind of an antenna is necessary.
Many viewers in town can get by with a simple "loop" antenna, while
those on the fringes of town or in certain problem areas will need an
outdoor-type antenna.

</div>

What are the "problem areas"?

<div>

Because radio waves (television is transmitted by radio waves) are not
able to "bend" around obstructions, any location that is not within
line-of-sight of the WLT tower south of town will be at a disadvantage
for reception. Hills, large metal-framed or -clad buildings or other
structures, large trees, etc. between the receiver and the tower will
make reception more difficult or impossible. Even locations in town with
line-of-sight to the tower may have difficulties, as described below.

</div>

I'm in town, and I can clearly see the tower, but I can't receive all
the stations.

<div>

Unfortunately, this is something we hear too often. Even if you are away
from obstructions, the signals my be reflecting off of those objects,
and are being received by your TV set. This is a phenomena known as
"multipath", that is multiple signals broadcast by the same source,
but arriving at different times due to the difference in distance
(reflected signals travel farther than direct signals, and so are
received delayed in time.) Your TV set has trouble discerning which
signal to use, and so it displays artifacts in the picture, or mutes to
no picture at all.

</div>

How do I solve multipath-related reception problems?

<div>

Fortunately, in most cases, the solution to the reflected signals
problem is to replace your indoor "loop" antenna with an outdoor-type,
directional antenna. The directional antenna will attenuate, or
"ignore" signals from the back and sides so that there is less
competition of signals to confuse your set. An "outdoor" antenna
doesn't necessarily have to be on your roof, or even outdoors. In an
attic, a carport rafter area, in an inconspicuous area around your
eaves, all of these may work fine. One viewer solved her reception
problems by putting a directional antenna in her unused hall closet.

</div>

I have an outdoor antenna and I still can't get one channel. My
neighbor down the street doesn't have this problem.

<div>

We hear this most from viewers who live close-in, places around the
water tower on Spruce Street, by the Airport on Kingwood, etc. The
answer is more technical, and is also more difficult to correct. In
short, all transmitting antennas have "lobes" and "nulls" in their
vertical radiation pattern, that is areas of higher and lower
concentrations of radio frequency energy. These areas are concentrated
at various angles below the tower. The signal going out towards the
horizon is nice and even, but close-in it varies greatly. Add to this
the possibility of multipath signals, and you get a perfect storm, weak
direct signal in relation to the stronger reflected signal.\
 \
For an idea what this "looks" like, view the ground in front of an
automobile at night when the headlights are on. Right at the front
bumper of the car, there will bright and dim areas on the pavement,
while 25 or 50 feet out on the road, the illumination is good and even.
This is directly analogous to the patterns of vertical radiation in a
broadcast antenna. Moving your antenna even just a few feet one
direction or the other *might* be enough to get you out of the dark.

</div>

I've tried everything, I still can't get that one channel!

<div>

Don't give up! Short of selling your home and moving to another part of
town, it might be time to try some unconventional cures.\
 \
⇨ Try pointing your antenna *away* from the tower. If the reflected
signal is so strong, it might be a better bet than going with the direct
signal.\
 \
⇨ You might try changing the polarity of your antenna. Most TV antennas
are horizontally polarized because this is a good way to minimize the
effects of trees, power poles, lighting standards, and other common
upright obstructions. WLT's transmitting antenna is "circularly
polarized", so it transmits in both planes. Rotating the receive
antenna 90 degrees clockwise or counter-clockwise will change the
polarity. (this assumes that you keep the antenna pointed at the same
compass reading that you started at.)\
 \
⇨ Put up a second outdoor antenna some distance away, using a two-set
"splitter" to combine the two antennas into one coaxial feed line.
Perhaps the multipath will cancel and the direct signal will add.\
 \
⇨ Sometimes *too much* signal is worse than not enough. It doesn't take
very much input to make an HD television produce a fine picture. Try
inserting "attenuator pads" in the coaxial feedline. These are small,
cylindrical "F connector" devices that reduce the signal reaching your
set. They are rated by how much signal loss they produce, measured in
decibels. A 3db "pad" cuts the signal in half. 6db cuts it by 75%, and
9 db allows only about 12% of the signal through. Add in as much
attenuation as necessary until the interference is gone, or you start
losing the other channels.\
 \
Although this doesn't sound very encouraging, keep trying things until
something works. Over-the-air television has always involved a bit of
experimentation, particularly in hilly or mountainous terrain.

</div>

What else can affect reception?

<div>

This is the non-technical "handwavium" explanation. Viewers in problem
areas (in the nulls and on the outskirts of town, behind trees, around
the curves and hills) are subject to variable environmental conditions.
Leaves on (or off) trees and shrubs, wet foliage, plain old fog,
temperature inversions in the atmosphere causing "ducting" and
flat-out dingbat problems like whether a neighbor's metal garage door
is up or down or some guy three blocks away who parks a slab-sided,
aluminum-clad RV in his driveway. One viewer complained for a week
without us finding any reason. After being explained some basic
propagation theory, she realized that the picture was just fine until
she moved the TV out of it's usual corner to put up the Christmas tree
for the season. Put the TV back in it's place and no more problems. It
can be a lot like chasing ghosts, except lots less glamorous. Keep
trying things until something works, however improbable it may seem.

</div>

Everything was fine, now channel XX is all pixelated and freezing.

<div>

Don't despair. Sometimes stuff happens. For the most part, WLT has very
reliable equipment. We have a massive diesel generator to back up the
utility power during failures, and we try hard to keep the stations
coming no matter what.\
 \
That said, there are many conditions that are beyond our control. All of
the TV programming you see on our channels comes from Eugene by various
means. Some stations own microwave equipment to deliver the programming,
while others rely on commercial radio communications companies to bring
the picture and sound over from the valley. Nearly all of these
microwave systems are "hop" systems, the programming is being sent to
some other distant mountain top, then relayed into Florence to supply
us. Some stations rely on over-the-air pickup of the Eugene TV station
to supply us with programming. There are many, many links in the chain,
and if any one of them goes bad, one or more channels here gets
impacted. We are only able to retransmit the programming that we are
sent, so if it arrives defective, or not at all, we can only notify the
originating station and hope it is repaired soon.

</div>

How can I report problems that I think are transmission-related?

<div>

First, check into this web site. When there is an ongoing problem that
we are aware of, there will be a banner at the bottom of every page
describing the issue, and giving information as to when it is expected
to be solved.\
 \
If you have checked with friends, neighbors or social media, and the
indications are that other viewers are experiencing an outage on the
same channel(s) you are having problems with, please do contact us via
our [Contact Page](http://www.westlanetv.org/contact). We can't be
monitoring every channel all the time, and we rely on reports from
concerned viewers to help us keep up with the status of the system.
Normally, each message sent via the site will be answered individually,
although if things are coming in hot and heavy, you might get an
auto-reply until we get caught up.\
 \
Also consider contacting the originating station using the contact
information on the [HDTV
Stations](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Stations) page. If they just
get a single complaint, they are likely to think that the problem is
your antenna or your set, but if there are several similar reports of
trouble, they *will* take it seriously. West Lane County comprises 10%
of their viewing public. For the sake of their ratings and their
advertisers, they are more than willing to do whatever it takes to
resolve any transmission problems in lil' ole' Florence. (It's also a
condition of their user contract with WLT, so we both take it seriously)

</div>

Why is HDTV supposed to be so much better? I don't remember having so
many problems with reception back before it came along.

<div>

Well, in may respects, you are correct. When HDTV works, it's amazing.
When it doesn't work, it's... mostly nothing.\
 \
The *concept* of HDTV is a sound one. Remove the variables of analog
transmission and reception and the picture and sound quality improves,
additional channels can be broadcast, and the overall range (distance)
that the signal covers increases. On paper.\
 \
In application, the reality is somewhat more variable. Digital is great
for low noise, high quality content transmission. There's only two
states, a digital 1 or a digital 0, no room for anything in between, so
no corruption of the program content by weak signal snow, multipath
ghosting, vertical synchronization failures (rolling picture), etc.\
 \
The problem comes when atmospherics, terrain obstructions, reflected
signals and the like intervene. HDTV depends on all of the little 1's
and 0's being in the proper place and all lined up correctly. If the
checksums don't figure, the buffer doesn't fill, or the error
correction can't keep up with the corrupt data, what the viewer gets
is... nothing, pretty much. Digital doesn't fail gracefully.\
 \
Makes one yearn for the old analog days where you could still watch I
Love Lucy through whatever ghosts and snow were in the signal. The brain
is a powerful filter, all that interference, and you could still
comprehend and enjoy the show.

</div>

I'm NOT going up on the roof! How can I get an outdoor antenna
installed?

<div>

You are in luck! What we have been told is that if you purchase an
outdoor antenna from Full Spectrum Computers in Florence, they will
install it for you. There may be an additional charge for this service,
so be sure to inquire about this. Contracting to do installation or
repairs on a home or business requires a license and insurance, so
unless you have a relative who likes heights and owes you a favor, this
may be your best option.

</div>



