Title: Donate or join WLT

West Lane Translator welcomes your support!

## Donations

The amount you donate is up to you.

All proceeds are applied to the operation of the translator
facilities, none of our administration is paid staff.

## Memberships

One Year
: A One-Year Membership costs just $10 and entitles you to voting
  privileges at the annual meeting.

Lifetime
: Lifetime Membership is available for $75. It grants you full
  membership privileges and our eternal gratitude.

Membership conditions and rights are described in the *Regular Voting Members*
section of the [WLT by-laws]({static}/pdfs/WLT_Bylaws_2018.pdf).

Membership also includes a quarterly e-newsletter detailing our
volunteer efforts to maintain your access to free, quality on-air
broadcasting from eleven television and radio broadcasters on our
towers.

West Lane Translator is a "membership" nonprofit -- your vote is the
keystone -- you can vote annually for Board members. You will receive
email alerts of our open public meetings.

-------

Please remit donations or membership via US Postal Mail to our mailing address:

West Lane Translator  
P.O. Box 91  
Florence, Oregon 97439

Be sure to include your name and mailing address if it is not
indicated on your payment method (money order, etc.)

Please note that donations or memberships sent from this page will be
applied to West Lane Translator, Inc. If you are interested in
supporting WLT's licensed non-profit radio station, KXCR, you may do
so by visiting the [KXCR web site](http://www.kxcr.net).

-------

As WLT is a 501(c)(4) non-profit corporation, your contributions are
not tax deductible, but they do help us to keep the free, over-the-air
programming coming. The Officers and Board of Directors serve on a
volunteer basis, there are no paid staff members. Professional
services such as accounting, legal advice, and engineering are paid
modestly on an hourly basis when needed. You can be sure that your
contribution will go directly to the necessary expenses of keeping
entertainment, news, and public safety information flowing into the
West Lane County airwaves.
