
Emergency Alert System
----------------------

The Emergency Alert System (EAS) is a national warning system in the
United States put into place in 1997, superseding the Emergency
Broadcast System (EBS) and the CONELRAD System. It will, in turn,
eventually be superseded by iPAWS - the Integrated Public Alert and
Warning System.

It is jointly coordinated by the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC), Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and the National
Weather Service (NWS). The official EAS is designed to enable the
President of the United States to speak to the United States within 10
minutes. The EAS regulations and standards are governed by the Public
Safety and Homeland Security Bureau of the FCC. Each state and several
territories have their own EAS plan.

The EAS covers AM, FM, as well as VHF, and UHF television including
low-power stations. Digital television and cable providers, along with
digital radio broadcasters have been required to participate in the EAS
since December 31, 2006.

The FCC requires all broadcast stations to install and maintain EAS
decoders and encoders at their control points. These decoders
continuously monitor the signals from other nearby broadcast stations
for EAS messages. For reliability, at least two other source stations
must be monitored, one of which must be a designated local primary
station.

In addition to the audio messages transmitted by radio stations,
television stations must also transmit a visual message. A text
"crawl" is displayed at the top of the screen that contains all of the
information encoded in the initial header. A color coded "crawl"
system is often used where the color signifies the priority of the
message. Some television stations transmit only the visual message which
is outside of the requirements.

All EAS equipment must be tested weekly. The required weekly test (RWT)
consists of the header and the end-of-message SAME bursts. The RWT does
not need an audio or graphic message announcing the test, although many
stations will provide them as a courtesy to the listener or viewer.
Television stations are not required to transmit a video message for
weekly tests. RWTs are scheduled by the station, on random days and
times, and are generally not relayed.

Required Monthly Tests (RMTs) are generally originated by the primary
relay station or a State's EAS agency, relayed by broadcast and cable
stations. Some RMT's are issued by the National Weather Service,
sometimes for Statewide Severe Weather Drills.

**Because the format of test messages closely resembles that of actual
emergency messages, it is advised that you pay close attention to any
EAS activations you hear on any broadcast station. Until you can confirm
by listening or reading the EAS message that it is "only a test", you
should assume that the incoming information could be important to your
safety, or that of others near you.**

All West Lane Translator associated stations carry regularly required
tests as well as emergency messages as necessary. You will likely
encounter EAS activations in the form of tests on any of our stations.



