Title: Frequently Asked Questions

Here we'll try to briefly touch upon some topics, provide a quick and
understandable answer, and direct you to resources to help you learn
more.

[TOC]

### What's this about "translators"? Do I need to know a foreign language?

No special language skills are required. The term "Translator" is in
reference to the equipment that is used to transmit a signal, either
audio or video, on a frequency or channel different than it was
originally transmitted on. For example, a broadcast on TV channel 8
might be received by translator equipment, and shifted either up or
down, perhaps to channel 45. The program content of the broadcast is
unchanged by the shift in channel, it is identical to the
original. Shifting the frequency of FM stations or the channel number of
TV stations is necessary to prevent interference to the originating
station's broadcast signal.  See the [Channels and
Sub-Channels]({filename}HDTV/Channels.md) and [FM
Radio]({filename}FM.md) pages for additional information.

### HDTV? What's that? Why do I need it?

HDTV stands for High Definition TeleVision, which is the current,
digital standard for all television broadcasts in the U.S. All
full-power television stations in the country were required to switch
over to this new digital standard and cease broadcasting in the old,
"analog" format in early 2010. In nearly all parts of the country, it is
the only type of on-air television broadcast available. Your enjoyment
of on-air television broadcasts is now enhanced by clearer, crisper
video images, stereophonic and surround sound of the highest quality,
and the complete absence of snow, ghosting, fading, and distortion that
the old system was prone to experience. See the [HDTV
Reception]({filename}HDTV/Reception.md) page for additional
information. HDTV also allows the originating station to supply up to
three additional program streams to be viewed. See the [Channels and
Sub-Channels]({filename}HDTV/Channels.md) page for additional
information.

### I've tried receiving your broadcasts on my HD television, but see nothing. Why?

There may be a variety of reasons, but first understand that you must
have an antenna connected to your television to receive anything. See
the [HDTV Antennas]({filename}HDTV/Antennas.md) page for additional
information. With an antenna, reception in most areas of Florence and
the surrounding area should be no problem. See the [HDTV
Coverage]({filename}HDTV/Coverage.md) page for additional information
and some helpful maps to determine if you can receive our signals. Some
HD televisions must be programmed to recognize on-air broadcast
signals. Consult your television's owners manual for instructions on how
to "scan" for stations.

### My television is quite old. Can I still use it to receive your broadcasts?

For the best viewing experience, we recommend that you purchase a newer
television. All receivers manufactured after 2007 are HDTV capable. You
do not need an elaborate system to view HDTV, even a modestly-priced
HDTV will provide you with significantly improved picture
quality. Alternately, "converter boxes" are manufactured to allow older
sets to receive HDTV signals. See the [HDTV
Reception]({filename}HDTV/Reception.md) page for additional information.

### I see that one of your FM radio stations is broadcasting in digital HD. When will the remainder go HD?

HD Radio is still an option, rather than a mandate. As such, most radio
broadcasters are waiting to see how many HD radio receivers there will
be in the market, and how much interest the public has in buying
them. HD radio is *very* expensive to buy and install, so most
broadcasters are being cautious.

### Every so often, I hear an unusual squawking noise on my FM radio. What's that?

What you are hearing is most likely the alert signal tones and data
headers for the Emergency Alert System. The equipment for the EAS system
is tested each week to ensure it is properly functional. The EAS system
is an integral part of public safety in the event of an emergency, and
also is used to assist law enforcement in the event of a child
abduction. Get to know more about this essential service by reading our
[EAS Information Page]({filename}EAS.md).
