
HD Television Translators
-------------------------

West Lane Translator is the licensee of four HDTV digital television
translators in Florence. Together with a fifth licensee, Oregon Public
Broadcasting, we bring High Definition television to the Central Coast
area.

Because we are incorporated as a non-profit entity, we are able to offer
these television signals at no cost to the Florence and Central Coast
communities. All that is required of the viewer is a television receiver
of reasonably recent vintage and some manner of receiving antenna to
pick up the on-air signal.

High Definition television is the latest technological advance which
provides a digital signal delivery path using on-air signals. Gone are
the days of pictures filled with snow, ghosts, and fading. Digital
delivery means flawless picture and sound quality, and offers enhanced
features on every channel.

Our five Member television stations providing programming are: [(in
alphabetical order)]{.txtsm}\
[**KEPB**](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Stations#kepb) - Oregon Public
Broadcasting - PBS TV\
[**KEZI**](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Stations#kezi) - Heartland
Media - ABC TV\
[**KLSR**](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Stations#klsr) - California
Oregon Broadcasting - Fox TV\
[**KMTR**](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Stations#kmtr) - Sinclair
Broadcasting - NBC TV\
[**KVAL**](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Stations#kval) - Sinclair
Broadcasting - CBS TV

Quick Guide to Television Channels

<div>

Station

</div>

Eugene Channel

Florence Channel

KEPB

Ch 28

Ch 32

KEZI

Ch 9

Ch 35

KLSR

Ch 34

Ch 28

KMTR

Ch 16

Ch 26

KVAL

Ch 13

Ch 24

Be sure to read our [Channels and
Sub-Channels](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Channels) page for help and
advice programming your HD television or HDTV converter box.

Each of the translators carries the programming content of one of the
major networks on the main channel. Because HDTV allows for the use of
sub-channels, each of the stations carries supplemental programming in
addition to their regular network and locally-produced features. This
means more choices for the viewer, still at no cost.

[[READ MORE](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Stations) about our member
stations\
[READ MORE](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Channels) about HDTV main and
sub-channels]{.txtsm}

All of the transmitting equipment required to place these HDTV signals
on the air is new, and was placed on the air January 12, 2010. Due to
the efficiency of having matching equipment, each of the five stations
uses identical transmitters and the resulting signals are combined
electronically so that a master transmitting antenna can be utilized
from atop our new 240-foot tower on Glenada Hill, south of Florence. As
a result, and because the five TV stations have identical power output
levels, robust signal strength in the area is insured for each station.

[[READ MORE](http://www.westlanetv.org/Siuslaw_News_01-16-2010.pdf)
about WLT's transmission facility upgrade (PDF)\
[READ MORE](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Receivers) about Digital and
Analog television receivers and "converter boxes"\
[READ MORE](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Antennas) about antennas and
signal reception\
[READ MORE](http://www.westlanetv.org/HDTV/Coverage) about reception and
coverage, including maps of the area.]{.txtsm}



