Title: Introduction
URL:
Save_As: index.html
Status: Hidden

---

<b>
January 28, 2021

KODZ (93.5 MHz FM) is currently off the air in the Florence area.
Unfortunately, they have experienced an equipment failure that has
reduced their transmitters output in Eugene to only 3% of its normal
value.  This signal is too weak for our equipment on Glenada Hill to
acquire and transmit to listeners in our local area.  The good news is
replacement parts are on the way and we will inform you as soon as the
repairs at KODZ are accomplished and their service restored to normal.
In the meantime, if you wish to listen to their parent station
broadcast KOOL (99.1 MHz FM) you may do so online with any browser at
<https://kool991.com>.

On behalf of WLT and KODZ please accept our apologies for this
unanticipated interruption of service on 93.5 MHz FM.
</b>

---

Since [1959]({filename}About/History.md), West Lane Translator has
brought FREE over-the-air Television and FM broadcasts to Florence,
Oregon and the Central Oregon Coast area.

Today, we continue to present our community with state-of-the-art
[High Definition digital television]({filename}HDTV.md) featuring the
highest video and audio quality available anywhere. Our six [FM radio
translators]({filename}FM.md) provide diverse programming choices
while maintaining world-class signal quality, including HD digital
music and news.

Take some time to explore our web site. Here you will find access to
the information you need to make the most of our available services.

As a non-profit, Oregon State 501(c)(4) corporation, we maintain an
online [listing]({filename}About/Governance.md) of officers,
board-of-directors members, upcoming meetings, and
[bylaws]({static}/pdfs/WLT_Bylaws_January_27_2021_distribution.pdf) for your
perusal. You will also find ample [contact
information]({filename}About/Contact.md), should you desire to let us
know your feelings or need further information.  We're also currently
looking for new board members and would appreciate hearing from you if
you want to help!

Continue your visit here by reading the [Frequently Asked
Questions]({filename}FAQ.md) section, or by exploring the menu items
on the left side of every page.
