
Florence Area Tsunami Information
---------------------------------

**IF YOU LIVE AT OR VISIT THE COAST, THE INFORMATION ON THIS PAGE MAY
SAVE YOUR LIFE. PLEASE TAKE THE TIME TO READ IT AND SHARE WHAT YOU HAVE
LEARNED WITH YOUR FAMILY AND FRIENDS.**

The evacuation zones on the
[map](http://www.westlanetv.org/gfx/tsunami_map.gif) were developed by
the Oregon Department of Geology and Mineral Industries in consultation
with local officials. It is intended to represent a worst-case scenario
for a tsunami caused by an undersea earthquake near the Oregon coast.

Evacuation routes were developed by local officials and reviewed by the
Oregon Department of Emergency Management.

The map is intended for emergency response and should not be used for
site-specific planning.

A tsunami is a series of sea waves usually caused by a displacement of
the ocean floor by an undersea earthquake. As tsunamis enter shallow
water near land, they increase in height and can cause great loss of
life and property damage.

Recent research suggests that tsunamis have struck the Oregon coast on a
regular basis. They can occur any time, day or night. Typical wave
heights from tsunamis occurring in the Pacific over the last 80 years
have been 20--45 feet at the shoreline. A few waves however have been
much higher---as much as 100 feet or more---because of local conditions.

We distinguish between a tsunami caused by an undersea earthquake near
the Oregon coast (LOCAL TSUNAMI) and an undersea earthquake far away
from the coast (DISTANT TSUNAMI).

**A LOCAL TSUNAMI** could come onshore within 15 to 20 minutes after the
earthquake---before there is time for official warning from a national
warning system. Ground-shaking from the earthquake may be the only
warning you have. Evacuate quickly!

**A DISTANT TSUNAMI** will take four hours or more to come onshore. You
will feel no earthquake, and the tsunami will generally be smaller than
that from a local earthquake. There will typically be time for an
official warning and evacuation to safety.

Some communities will signal the need for evacuation for a distant
tsunami by a sounding a STEADY 3-MINUTE SIREN BLAST. Read the [Tsunami
Sirens Protocol](http://www.westlanetv.org/Tsunami/Sirens) page for more
information.

All coastal communities will receive announcements over NOAA weather
radio that the local area has been put into an official TSUNAMI WARNING.

In isolated areas along beaches and bays you may not hear a warning.
Here, a sudden change of sea level should prompt you to move immediately
inland to high ground.

If you hear the 3-minute blast or see sudden sea level changes, evacuate
away from shoreline areas, then turn on your local broadcast media or
NOAA weather radio for further information.

**FOR BOTH DISTANT AND LOCAL TSUNAMIS:**

1.  Evacuate on foot if at all possible because of potential traffic
    jams.
2.  Stay away from potentially hazardous areas until you receive an ALL
    CLEAR from local officials. Dangerous waves can persist for several
    hours, and local officials must inspect all flooded or
    earthquake-damaged structures before anyone can go back into them.
3.  If you need help evacuating, tie something WHITE (sheet or towel) to
    the front door knob. Make it large enough to be visible from the
    street. If the emergency is a distant tsunami, then help may arrive.
    In the event of a local earthquake and tsunami, it is unlikely that
    anyone will help you, so make a plan and be prepared!
4.  After evacuation, check with the local area commander if you can
    help with special skills or need assistance with locating lost
    family.



